In the last few videos,
we've seen how pivot tables will
allow us to create
powerful analytics.
But often, we need
to quickly absorb
that information and make
those split-second
determinations.
For that, we need a pivot chart
or another visualization.
When we think pivot tables and
visualizations, typically,
we do think pivot charts,
but we do have some other options
which you would like
to look at first.
One of them is
conditional formatting.
Now, we're in the
Investment tab arrow,
and would like to add
a conditional format
that demonstrates
the proportion of investment in
a particular country
compared to the others.
We could add it directly
to the data here,
but we actually wanted
added in a separate column.
We're going to grab our amount in
US dollar millions and
just pop it into the
values column again.
We've actually got it twice.
Before we add our
conditional format,
it's a good idea to
remove any raw filters.
Otherwise, you will only end up
adding it to the visible cells.
Coming to our row labels,
I'm going to come to
"Clear Filter from
Recipient Country" to
remove the filter.
Two more little tweaks.
We're going to come
to our "Design" tab.
I'm going to turn our row
and column totals of,
and on our Data tab,
we're going to sort
largest to smallest.
We're now set up,
and we're going to add
our visualization.
As we would with normal data,
we're going to click into C4
and press Control
Shift Down Arrow.
Then coming to the "Home" tab,
we're going to come to the
Conditional Formatting button.
You can add any of these
conditional formats.
But the one we want to
use today is a data bar.
Choose the color you like,
and there he go.
Lets make a small
modification to it.
I'm going to come back to
conditional formatting.
We're going to come
to "Manage Rules",
and we're going to
double-click our rule,
and we get the full set of
customizations available as well.
I'm going to change the color
so it ties in with my theme.
I'm going to choose
"Show Bar Only",
and then I'm going to
say "Okay" and "Okay".
Very simple way of
adding a visualization.
Let's change the heading.
This is going to
be investment in millions.
Interestingly, you can also add
custom number format
to a visualization,
which can be handy when
the conditional
formatting doesn't
give you what you need.
Let's go and add our
amount in millions, again,
to our values quadrants,
and we're going to call
this one Target met.
What we would like to
be able to see here
is whether they've achieved
their annual target.
So 900 million is the target,
and if we hit it,
we want to see a
green smiley face,
and if we don't,
we actually want to
leave the cell empty.
I'm going to select the data.
We're going to come up to
our Number format group and
click the dialogue launcher,
or you may remember the
keyboard shortcut, Control 1.
I want to custom format.
To make life a little easier,
we've already added it.
We're going for color 14,
values that are greater than 900,
and where that's true,
we want to see a smiley face.
I'm going to say, "Okay",
and there's our
custom number format.
If we then want to filter the
data to show the values for
2011, both immediately
recalculate.
That's a couple of
creative ideas.
Let's now see how we
create a pivot chart.
For this, we are going
to come to the next tab,
which is capacity by year.
Click somewhere
into the pivot data
and to create a pivot chart,
we come to our
"PivotTable Analyze" tab.
In the Tools group, we're
going to select "PivotChart".
It looks like we're getting
all the same options as we
do with regular charts.
While pivot charts are very
similar to irregular charts,
there are two
distinct differences.
The first is that we can't
use all the same chart types.
We can use the normal ones,
so everything from
column down to area.
But if I try to
use an XY scatter,
you see that's grayed out,
and it's the same case for
everything else
underneath as well.
The other difference is that when
we create a normal chart,
we select some cells,
and we chart the
data of those cells.
A pivot chart is
a graphical representation
of a pivot table.
You can't select part
If the pivot table changes,
the chart will change,
and vice versa.
Outside of that,
you will find that
pivot charts are very
much like regular charts.
The one we want is
a stacked column.
We're going to come to "Column",
and choose "Stacked Column",
and then we're going
to say "Okay".
Here is our pivot chart.
It looks very similar
to a regular chart,
but probably the first
thing you'll notice
is that you get
these field buttons,
and these allow us to interact
with the pivot chart,
just like you would
with a pivot table.
On the right-hand side,
our pivot table fields have been
replaced with pivot chart fields.
But you'll see instead of column,
we have legend and instead
of row, we have axis.
Let's start by getting familiar
with the field buttons,
and the first one I'd
like to show you are
these two at the bottom
right-hand corner,
which had been added with
the newer version of Excel,
so you might not have these
if you've got a
slightly older version.
Wherever you have multiple
values in your axis,
you actually get a hierarchy,
and these allow you to expand
or collapse that hierarchy.
If I click on the plus,
you'll see it's
expanded to show me
all the Renewable
and Non-Renewable,
and you'll notice that
the pivot table has
changed as well.
If I click the minus,
it collapses the groups.
I'm going to expand them again,
but I don't actually want
to see the Non-Renewable,
and for each of the fields
represented in the
pivot chart quadrants,
you'll also get a field button.
If I come to RE or Non-RE,
I can actually choose to
not show the Non-Renewable,
and when I say OK,
it is now showing me
the Renewable capacity,
both in my chart and in my table.
It's still got the
hierarchy though,
which I don't want,
so what I'm going to
do is I'm going to
come to my pivot
chart field list,
I'm going to grab
the RE or non-RE,
and drop it into the
filters quadrants.
What that has done is add
a filter to the top of my chart.
I no longer have that hierarchy.
I can also filter by
either my axis categories
or my legend series.
Come into my year, for example,
I could choose to just
see the data for 2001,
and that chart is looking
a lot more sensible.
To clear the filter,
I click the drop-down and click
Clear Filter from "Year".
This chart however, is not
actually showing me
what I want to see.
I would like to see my year on
my axis and my
technology as a series,
so what I really want to do
is swap these two values around,
and I could do it by just
dragging like I would
in a pivot table,
but pivot charts give
us another option.
I'm going to come up
to my Design tab,
and in the data group,
I can switch my row/column data,
and when I do, you'll
see it's switched in
my table and my chart
now looks much better.
On the Design tab,
we have all the same tools
as with regular charts.
For example, I could go
in and style my chart,
I could change my chart type,
I could change the colors,
I could add or remove
chart elements,
I also have the Chart
Element button here,
and I can come and
move my legend,
so I'm going to put
that at the top,
I'm going to switch
off my grid lines,
I could add a chart
title if I wanted to,
and I have the other options for
formatting by chart as well.
For example, if I come to
my vertical axis
and double-click,
that will open up my
former access panel,
and I'd like to show
this in thousands.
I'd also like to
change my gap width.
I'm going to click on one of
my bars and I'm going to
make that 50 percent.
My dates are looking
very squashed,
so I'm going to make a bit
of a change to that as well.
Clicking on to the
horizontal axis,
we're going to come
to Axis Options,
Size and Properties,
and we're going
to change our text
direction to be rotated.
Then I'm going to close up
that panel because that's
looking pretty good.
I just have one concern though,
and that's these field buttons.
While they do allow me to
interact with the chart,
they take up quite a
lot of chart space,
and if I decide to
print this chart,
there actually going to print.
The good news is we
can turn them off,
and we do that by coming to
our Pivot Chart Analyze tab,
and on the far right,
you'll see Field Buttons,
if you click the Drop-down,
you can actually select which
ones you want to turn off.
Alternatively, if you click
the top part of the button,
you can turn them all
off with one click,
and there's our
completed pivot chart.
Everyone say, wow.
We've only had the
time to create one,
but we'll give you more
opportunities to create
them in this week's
practice challenge,
so don't forget to check
the practice challenge out.